<header>
<h1>Description</h1>
<p>This code and final result was made by LeszekF for programming assignment in Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project course (www.coursera.org).
<br />Final data: tidydata.txt
<br />Original data: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
<br />Final file was generated by run_analysis.R script (this script cleaned and prepared data for final result).
</p>
</header>
<header>
<h1>Source data</h1>
<p>The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.</p> 
<p>The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. </p>

<p>source: README.txt file from original data source</p>
</header>
<header>
<h1>Process of getting and cleaning data</h1>
<p>R script does the following to prepare final data file:
<ol type="1">
  <li>Downloads file and unzip</li>
  <li>Reads files to common data frames:
    <br /> - activity_labels.txt (activity_lables)
    <br /> - features.txt (features)
  </li>
  <li>Reads test files:
    <br /> - X_test.txt (set_test)
    <br /> - y_test.txt (label_test)
    <br /> - subject_test.txt (subject_test)
  </li>
  <li>Combines test data to one data frame and merge with activity_lables</li>
  <li>Reads training files:
    <br /> - X_train.txt (set_train)
    <br /> - y_train.txt (label_train)
    <br /> - subject_train.txt (subject_train)
  </li>
  <li>Combines training data to one data frame and merge with activity_lables</li>
  <li>Merges training and test data frames</li>
  <li>Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement</li>
  <li>Sets more descriptive variable names</li>
  <li>Calculates mean for each measurement by subject_id, label column</li>
  <li>Saves data to tidydata.txt file</li>
</ol>
</header>
<header>
<h1>Details about the final data in tidydata.txt file</h1>
<ol type="1">
  <li>10299 obs. of  81 variables</li>
  <li>Variables:
    <br /> - subject_id(int) - represents number of volunteer
    <br /> - label (factor) - activity label (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING)
    <br /> - variables c(3:81) - in each variable is calculated mean values by subject_id by label. More information about values are in section Source data.
  </li>
</header>
